# Contributing to MongoDB Atlas CDK
MongoDB welcomes community contributions! If you’re interested in making a contribution, please follow the steps below before you start writing any code:

1. Reach out by filing an [issue](https://github.com/mongodb/mongodbatlas-cloudformation-resources/issues) to discuss your proposed contribution, be it a bug fix or feature/other improvements.
1. Sign the [contributor's agreement](http://www.mongodb.com/contributor). This will allow us to review and accept contributions.

After the above steps are completed and we've agreed on a path forward:
1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Create a branch with a name that briefly describes your submission
3. Add comments around your new code that explain what's happening
4. Commit and push your changes to your branch then submit a pull request against the current release branch, not master.  The naming scheme of the branch is `release-staging-v#.#.#`. Note: There will only be one release branch at a time.
5. A repo maintainer will review the your pull request, and may either request additional changes or merge the pull request.

## Autoclose stale issues and PRs
- After 30 days of no activity (no comments or commits are on an issue or PR) we automatically tag it as “stale” and add a message: "This issue has gone 30 days without any activity and meets the project’s definition of ‘stale’. This will be auto-closed if there is no new activity over the next 30 days. If the issue is still relevant and active, you can simply comment with a “bump” to keep it open, or add the “[Status] Not Stale” label. Thanks for keeping our repository healthy!"
- After 30 more days of no activity we automatically close the issue / PR.

## CDK L1 Dev and Publishing
1. Install all the dependencies - `yarn, node, cdk-import`
2. Let's take an example For creating cdk for `private-endpoint` resource.
   Make sure cfn-resources/private-endpoint has the latest schema.
3. Execute `./cdk.sh private-endpoint`
4. This would generate the scaffolding using projen and
   would also emit autogenerated index.ts in the src directory.
5. Update the README.md file as per the CDK library requirements.

## Release and Publishing
### Manual Release
1. projenrc is set to do manual release.
2. The release process is based on *Semantic Versioning* and *Conventional Commits* (https://www.conventionalcommits.org/).
3. Make sure to follow the above guidelines in order to bump appropriate part of the version(*MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH*).
4. Commit the changes with the message based on the conventional commits guidelines.

### Publish
1. Make sure to create an NPM account and generate an NPM token.
2. `export NPM_TOKEN=<>` to generated token.
3. You might also need to `export NPM_ACCESS_LEVEL=public` in case it is not set in `projenrc`.
4. Execute `./publish.sh private-endpoint` to publish the resource.

### Tagging
1. The version is bumped based on the previous release version which is the tag in the git repository.
2. Release task would look for previous tag in the git repository and bump the version based on the last commit message.
